
# Deploy CloudWatch Dashboard Using CloudFormation

This guide will walk you through the process of deploying a CloudWatch dashboard using a CloudFormation template. The CloudFormation template is generated by a Python script provided in this repository.

## Prerequisites

- AWS CLI installed and configured with the necessary permissions for CloudFormation deployment.
- Python 3.x installed on your machine.
- Boto3 library installed (`pip install boto3`).

## Steps

1. Clone this repository to your local machine:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/theusc6/cloud-platform-engineering.git
    cd cloud-platform-engineering/Cloudformation/CloudWatch
    ```

2. Generate the CloudFormation Template:

    Move into the folder where you want the script to output the Cloudformation template:

    ```bash
    cd CloudWatch/dashboards/devops/training

    ```

    Run the Python script to generate the CloudFormation template for the CloudWatch dashboard. Replace `my-aws-profile` with your AWS CLI profile name and `MyDashboard` with the desired dashboard name:

    ```bash
    python ../../scripts/cloudwatch_dashboard_generate_deploy.py -p myorg-training -d DefaultTrainingDashboard
    ```

    Expected output

    ```bash
    Metrics that will be created into Dashboard widgets:
    - Config Metrics
    - Usage Metrics
    - Lambda Metrics
    - IPAM Metrics
    - DynamoDB Metrics
    - MediaConvert Metrics
    - S3 Metrics
    - EBS Metrics
    - Events Metrics
    - DevOps-Guru Metrics
    - NATGateway Metrics
    - Logs Metrics
    - SNS Metrics
    - States Metrics
    - HealthLake Metrics
    - EC2 Metrics
    - Glue Metrics
    - ApplicationELB Metrics
    - ContainerInsights Metrics
    - SES Metrics
    - Timestream Metrics
    - Rekognition Metrics
    - Scheduler Metrics
    - Firehose Metrics
    - ElasticTranscoder Metrics
    Do you want to continue? (Y/n): 
    ```

    Enter 'Y', 'y', or `ENTER` to continue to create the template, any other entry will terminate the script.  There will be NO terminal output upon success.

    This deploys the Stack to AWS creating the Dashboard in the account you have specified in the `--profile` argument.

    This will also create a file named `DefaultTrainingDashboard_template.yaml` containing the CloudFormation template that was just deployed.

3. This is an OPTIONAL step as you have already deployed the Stack:

    Deploy the CloudFormation Stack from the generated `yaml` file:

    From the same directory where you created the yaml file, use the AWS CLI to deploy the CloudFormation stack using the generated template:

    ```bash
    aws cloudformation create-stack \
      --stack-name DefaultTrainingDashboard \
      --template-body file://DefaultTrainingDashboard.yaml \
      --profile myorg-training
    ```

    Expected output

    ```bash
    {
        "StackId": "arn:aws:cloudformation:us-west-2:123456789012:stack/DefaultTrainingDashboard/0e3add80-4826-11ee-9d4b-067715cb418b"
    }
    ```

    __NOTE:__ Replace `DefaultTrainingDashboard` with your desired stack name.

4. Monitor Deployment Progress:

    You can monitor the progress of the stack deployment using the AWS Management Console, AWS CLI, or AWS SDKs.

5. Access the CloudWatch Dashboard:

    Once the stack is successfully deployed, you can access the CloudWatch dashboard in the AWS Management Console. Navigate to the "CloudWatch" service, and under "Dashboards," you should see your newly created dashboard.

## Clean Up

When you're done experimenting with the CloudWatch dashboard, make sure to delete the CloudFormation stack to avoid incurring unnecessary charges:

```bash
aws cloudformation delete-stack \
  --stack-name DefaultTrainingDashboard \
  --profile myorg-training
```

## References

For more information on CloudFormation, refer to the [AWS CloudFormation documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/).

For any issues or questions, please create an issue on this repository.
